# UFOverlay
An After Effects script to convert text inputs into a set of comps populated with data from an external file, plus a website to generate those external files for import.

This is currently specific to an annual job I do for one client, but future versions will be more generalized. The After Effects project this relates to is not included, as that is proprietary.

UFOverlay has three components:
1. A web page that pre-processes a plain-text list of intended overlay types and overlay text, and outputs it as a .json file. This can be run locally, it does not need to be on the web, as long as the html/css/js folder structure is maintained;
2. An After effects project that contains template compositions for differet types of graphical/text overlays;
3. An After Effects script that imports the .json file generated by the web page, and
  - Locates the appropriate template comp for a given data entry,
  - Duplicates the template comp and renames it to meet client filenaming conventions, based on data from the imported file,
  - Populates the intended text layers with the required text from the source data
  - Adds the newly-created comps to the Render Queue using the correct output settings, and with the user-specified save location

The web page can generate data files for both graphical overlays and lower thirds, depending on user selection. The web page includes instructions on formatting the input text. Once the raw text is added, it is processed and displayed to the user in a table. Further modifications can be made in that table before being exported.

For both Graphical Overlay and Lower Thirds, the template currently accepts:
  - Designer
  - Project number
  - Color
  - Side (left or right)
  - Version number
  - Comp template type (Graphical Overlays and Lower Thirds each have multiple types available)

Graphical Overlays further accepts:
  - Job Number
  - Job Name
  - Text
  
Lower Thirds accepts:
  - Person's Name
  - Job Title
  - Quote (optional)

The script depends on matching comp names, and it builds new comp names according to this client's filenaming conventions. Those elements are not exposed to the user in the web page or in the script, so to use this for a project with different comp and file naming convenstions would require editing the script and the web page's JavaScript. It isn't going to be useful out-of-the-box as-is, but you can read the code and see how it works if you want to get ideas.

The next version will be part of a productivity toolkit I'm creating with this and a few other scripts. In that version the name matching will be user-defined, and should be much more universally useful.
